Reinstate `linea_estimateGas` page with caveats (#581)
Consensys/doc.linea: docs/developers/reference/api/linea-estimategas.mdx

---
description: Reference content for the linea_estimateGas method.
image: /img/socialCards/reference-content-for-the-lineaestimategas-method.jpg
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_estimateGas`

:::info

> `linea_estimateGas` is being reactivated on testnet from May 28. Mainnet activation is scheduled
> for July 24, 2024. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`linea_estimateGas` is currently only available on the Linea Sepolia testnet. Mainnet activation is scheduled
for July 24, 2024. 
```

> It will only be fully compatible with endpoints using the Besu client — if it is unavailable, try 

Reviewer: Will this be available for users running a Besu follower node? (our existing run a node instructiions) If not, we may want to clarify.

Author: Yes, my understanding is that this is the case

  - `gasPrice`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the gas price used for each paid gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: _\[optional]_ Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: _\[optional]_ Maximum total fee (base fee + priority fee), in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `value`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the value sent with this transaction.
  - `data`: _\[optional]_ Hash of the method signature and encoded parameters. See the
      [Ethereum contract ABI specification](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/abi-spec.html).
  - `block number`: _\[optional]_ A string representing a block number, or one of the string tags `latest`, `earliest`, or
      `pending`. See the [default block parameter](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/#default-block).

## Returns

Hexidecimal values representing the recommended gas limit, the base fee per gas, and the priority 
fee per gas.

## Example

:::tip

You can also call the API using [Infura's supported Linea endpoints](https://docs.infura.io/api/networks/linea/choose-a-network).
:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="cURL request">

   ```bash

>   curl https://rpc.linea.build \

Reviewer: Should we use the Sepolia endpoint instead?
